1.	There are 7 columns in the file. (counting by the eye)

2.	There are 29305 lines in the file.
	used the command: "wc gpcr.tab" and got the output: 29305 402852 3541806

3.	2255 lines searching for "Human".
	Used the command "grep Human gpcr.tab | wc" i.e piped the result from grep to wc.
	
	2244 lines for searching for "Homo sapiens"
	Using the command "grep "Homo sapiens" gpcr.tab | wc"

4.	The file is tab delimited. Lenght on line 7.
	Using the command: "cut -f 7 gpcr.tab | sort -n --reverse" yields the result that the shortes is 10.
	
	Explanation: 
	"cut -f 7 gpcr.tab", cuts away everything except field 7 in the file, where the lengths are stored.
	"| sort -n --reverse", the result of the cut is piped to sort. -n sorts numerically and --reverse gets the lowest numbers first.
	Without --reverse, the highest numbers are shown first.

5. 	11136 species.
	Used the command: "cut -f 6 gpcr.tab | uniq -u | wc"

	Explanation:
	"cut -f 6 gpcr.tab", cuts away everything except the 6th column, where the species are listed.w
	"| uniq -u", only prints out the uniq lines from the cut
	"| wc", uses the data from uniq to count the amount of lines.

	This of course could be improved. We don't see any of the intermediate data, so we could find any bugs.
	By using "tee" between the pipes, the data could be stored.

	Possible bugs:
	Is the organisms name sorted? If not, sort the data before piping to uniq, since it only looks at adjacent lines.
	Are the names mixed? i.e lower and upper case etc. In that case, add -i to ignore case.
	Does some names have extra spaces, not have paranthesis when other does not? add -w to uniq to only compare a set amount of characters.

6.	muscle is a program that aligns multiple sequences by doing pairwise alignment. You select multiple sequences (files) and the program finds
	the optimum alignment between all the sequences (PS: a gap will always be gaps)

	each file in the directory that we got are a fasta file with multiple sequences that needs to be aligned.

	See .sh file in github




